.\" sentineld.8 — Sentinel daemon manual page
.TH SENTINELD 8 "2026-05-14" "Sentinel v0.8" "Sentinel Manual"
.SH NAME
sentineld \- Sentinel daemon for policy enforcement
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sentineld serve
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B sentineld dev\-install
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sentineld
is the background daemon for Sentinel. It runs as a user-level LaunchAgent
(no root required) and provides:
.IP \(bu 2
IPC server on a Unix domain socket for the hook library and CLI
.IP \(bu 2
CBOR snapshot preparation with HMAC-SHA256 signing
.IP \(bu 2
DNS resolution proxying for hooked processes
.IP \(bu 2
Interactive prompt coordination (deduplication, timeout)
.IP \(bu 2
JSONL forensic log writing
.IP \(bu 2
Process tree tracking via audit tokens
.IP \(bu 2
SQLite persistence for rules and install artifacts
.PP
The daemon is normally managed by
.BR launchd (8)
with
.B KeepAlive=true
and monitored by the Sentinel watchdog. Users should not need to invoke
.B sentineld
directly; use
.BR sentinel (1)
.B setup
to install and manage it.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS sentineld serve
Start the IPC server and begin accepting connections. This is the main
operating mode, invoked by the LaunchAgent plist.
.PP
.B Options:
.TP
.BI \-\-state\-dir " PATH"
Path to the Sentinel state directory. Defaults to the platform-specific
location (typically
.IR ~/Library/Application\~Support/Sentinel/ ).
.SS sentineld dev\-install
Write the LaunchAgent plist for development use.
.PP
.B Options:
.TP
.BI \-\-state\-dir " PATH"
Path to the Sentinel state directory.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-bootstrap
Write the plist file without running
.BR "launchctl bootstrap" .
Useful for CI environments where launchd bootstrapping is not available.
.SH IPC PROTOCOL
The daemon listens on a Unix domain socket. The wire protocol uses
length-prefixed CBOR frames (4-byte big-endian length + CBOR payload).
Peer authentication uses kernel-sourced audit tokens via the
.B LOCAL_PEERTOKEN
socket option.
.PP
Protocol schema versions:
.TP
.B V1
RegisterRoot (frozen)
.TP
.B V2
PrepareSnapshot, Prompt
.TP
.B V3
Resolve (DNS), Status
.TP
.B V4
ForkEvent, ExecEvent, DylibLoaded
.SH ARCHITECTURE
The daemon runs a synchronous 32-thread worker pool with a bounded
request queue (64 slots). The database uses SQLite with WAL mode.
.PP
On startup, the daemon:
.IP 1. 3
Opens or creates the SQLite database and runs migrations
.IP 2. 3
Binds the Unix domain socket
.IP 3. 3
Spawns worker threads for IPC handling
.IP 4. 3
Begins accepting IPC connections
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Control logging verbosity. Defaults to
.BR info .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Sentinel/sentinel.db
SQLite database: rules, install artifacts, process roots.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Sentinel/sentinel.sock
Unix domain socket for IPC.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Sentinel/snapshots/
CBOR snapshot files (per-run, HMAC-signed).
.TP
.I ~/Library/Logs/Sentinel/
JSONL forensic log directory. Logs are rotated automatically.
.TP
.I ~/Library/LaunchAgents/sh.vandijk.sentinel.daemon.plist
LaunchAgent plist (installed by
.BR "sentinel setup" ).
.SH SECURITY
.IP \(bu 2
All IPC connections are authenticated via kernel audit tokens.
.IP \(bu 2
Snapshots are HMAC-SHA256 signed; the hook verifies signatures at load time.
.IP \(bu 2
The daemon runs as the current user with no elevated privileges.
.IP \(bu 2
Threat-intel deny rules are baked into the binary at build time; no data is sent upstream.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The watchdog process
.RB ( sentinel\-watchdog )
pings the daemon every 500ms. Two consecutive missed pings trigger
SIGTERM followed by SIGKILL. The LaunchAgent's
.B KeepAlive
directive ensures launchd restarts the daemon after any termination.
.PP
Check daemon health with:
.RS
.nf
sentinel status
sentinel status \-\-verbose
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel (1),
.BR launchd (8),
.BR launchctl (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel van Dijk
