.\" sentinel.1 — Sentinel CLI manual page
.TH SENTINEL 1 "2026-05-14" "Sentinel v0.8" "Sentinel Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel \- macOS supply-chain firewall for package installs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sentinel
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I command
.RI [ args... ]
.br
.B sentinel setup
.RI [ target ]
.RI [ FLAGS ]
.br
.B sentinel status
.RI [ subcommand ]
.RI [ FLAGS ]
.br
.B sentinel repair
.br
.B sentinel unwrap\-all
.RI [ FLAGS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sentinel
enforces default-deny outbound network policy on package-install subtrees.
Wrap any package manager command with
.B sentinel
and every outbound connection from the process tree is checked against a
multi-tier policy: curated registry allowlist, project rules, user rules,
threat-intel deny list, then default deny.
.PP
Enforcement uses DYLD library injection
.RB ( DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES )
to interpose libc network calls. A background daemon
.RB ( sentineld (8))
manages feeds, snapshots, and interactive prompts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-learn
Auto-allow unknown destinations and record them to
.IR .sentinel.toml .
Requires a TTY; refuses to run in non-interactive environments.
Use this on a known-clean install to build a project baseline.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS sentinel \fIcommand\fR [\fIargs...\fR]
The default action. Wraps
.I command
under Sentinel enforcement. All arguments are passed verbatim.
.PP
.RS
.nf
sentinel npm install
sentinel pip install \-r requirements.txt
sentinel cargo build
sentinel \-\-learn npm install
.fi
.RE
.SS sentinel setup [\fItarget\fR]
Install Sentinel components. Without a target, installs everything.
.TP
.B daemon
Install the LaunchAgent plist and bootstrap the daemon.
.TP
.B shell
Install shell integration marker blocks in shell RC files.
.PP
.B Flags:
.TP
.B \-\-remove
Remove the targeted component(s) instead of installing.
Cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-reinstall .
.TP
.B \-\-reinstall
Force-clean reinstall: wipe and re-derive all state.
Cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-remove .
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip TTY confirmation prompts.
.SS sentinel status [\fIsubcommand\fR]
Show Sentinel operational status. Without a subcommand, prints a summary
of daemon health, hook integrity, and recent activity.
.PP
.B Flags (bare status only):
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Verbose status output. Invalid when a subcommand is given.
.TP
.B \-\-json
JSON output. Invalid when a subcommand is given.
.PP
.B Subcommands:
.TP
.B logs
Show the JSONL forensic log.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-follow
Stream new log entries as they arrive.
.TP
.B \-\-json
JSON output.
.RE
.TP
.B rules
List active policy rules.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-all
Include built-in registry-allowlist rules.
.TP
.B \-\-project
Filter to rules from the closest
.I .sentinel.toml
above the current directory.
.TP
.B \-\-json
JSON output.
.RE
.TP
.B trust
Show trust policy state for project configuration files.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-json
JSON output.
.RE
.TP
.BI "denials " run_uuid
Show denied connections from a specific run.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-json
JSON output.
.RE
.TP
.BI "review " [run_uuid]
Interactively walk through denied connections and create allow/deny rules.
If
.I run_uuid
is omitted, reviews the most recent run.
.TP
.BI "persistence " [run_uuid]
Show persistence artifacts (files written during install) for a run.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-json
JSON output.
.RE
.SS sentinel repair
Verify and repair Sentinel installation integrity. Re-derives the HMAC key
and hook hash, and re-bootstraps LaunchAgents.
.SS sentinel unwrap\-all
Emergency escape hatch. Boots out the daemon and watchdog LaunchAgents
and clears all tracked process roots. Use when Sentinel is interfering
with a critical operation.
.PP
.B Flags:
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip TTY confirmation prompt.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.SS .sentinel.toml
Per-project rules file. Sentinel walks from the current directory upward
to find the nearest
.IR .sentinel.toml .
On first use, the file must be trusted via a TTY prompt (or auto-trusted
in non-TTY mode after SHA-256 validation).
.PP
Example:
.RS
.nf
[[allow]]
host = "api.example.com"
port = 443
reason = "Internal API"
.fi
.RE
.SS Policy Tiers (precedence order)
.TP
.B 1. Curated Allow
Built-in allowlist: package registries, CDNs.
.TP
.B 2. Project Allow
Rules from
.IR .sentinel.toml .
.TP
.B 3. User Allow
Rules created via interactive prompts or
.BR "sentinel status review" .
.TP
.B 4. Curated Deny
Threat-intel IOCs from OSV/GHSA feeds.
.TP
.B 5. Default Deny
Everything else is blocked. In TTY mode, the user is prompted.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Control logging verbosity. Defaults to
.BR warn .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Sentinel/
State directory: database, snapshots, HMAC keys.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Logs/Sentinel/
JSONL forensic logs.
.TP
.I .sentinel.toml
Per-project policy file.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Wrapped command exited successfully and no policy violations occurred.
.TP
.B non-zero
The wrapped command's exit code is forwarded.
.SH EXAMPLES
Wrap an npm install and review what was blocked:
.RS
.nf
$ sentinel npm install
$ sentinel status denials <run-uuid>
$ sentinel status review <run-uuid>
.fi
.RE
.PP
Build a baseline for a known-clean project:
.RS
.nf
$ sentinel --learn npm install
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install Sentinel for the first time:
.RS
.nf
$ cargo build --workspace --release
$ sentinel setup
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentineld (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel van Dijk
