.\" stt-guard-daemon.8 — Stentorian Guard daemon manual page
.TH STT-GUARD-DAEMON 8 "2026-05-14" "Stentorian Guard v0.8" "Stentorian Guard Manual"
.SH NAME
stt-guard-daemon \- Stentorian Guard daemon for policy enforcement
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stt-guard-daemon serve
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B stt-guard-daemon dev\-install
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stt-guard-daemon
is the background daemon for Stentorian Guard. It runs as a user-level LaunchAgent
(no root required) and provides:
.IP \(bu 2
IPC server on a Unix domain socket for the hook library and CLI
.IP \(bu 2
CBOR snapshot preparation with HMAC-SHA256 signing
.IP \(bu 2
DNS resolution proxying for hooked processes
.IP \(bu 2
Interactive prompt coordination (deduplication, timeout)
.IP \(bu 2
JSONL forensic log writing
.IP \(bu 2
Process tree tracking via audit tokens
.IP \(bu 2
SQLite persistence for rules and install artifacts
.PP
The daemon is normally managed by
.BR launchd (8)
with
.B KeepAlive=true
and monitored by the Stentorian Guard watchdog. Users should not need to invoke
.B stt-guard-daemon
directly; use
.BR stt-guard (1)
.B setup
to install and manage it.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS stt-guard-daemon serve
Start the IPC server and begin accepting connections. This is the main
operating mode, invoked by the LaunchAgent plist.
.PP
.B Options:
.TP
.BI \-\-state\-dir " PATH"
Path to the Stentorian Guard state directory. Defaults to the platform-specific
location (typically
.IR ~/Library/Application\~Support/Stentorian\~Guard/ ).
.SS stt-guard-daemon dev\-install
Write the LaunchAgent plist for development use.
.PP
.B Options:
.TP
.BI \-\-state\-dir " PATH"
Path to the Stentorian Guard state directory.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-bootstrap
Write the plist file without running
.BR "launchctl bootstrap" .
Useful for CI environments where launchd bootstrapping is not available.
.SH IPC PROTOCOL
The daemon listens on a Unix domain socket. The wire protocol uses
length-prefixed CBOR frames (4-byte big-endian length + CBOR payload).
Peer authentication uses kernel-sourced audit tokens via the
.B LOCAL_PEERTOKEN
socket option.
.PP
Protocol schema versions:
.TP
.B V1
RegisterRoot (frozen)
.TP
.B V2
PrepareSnapshot, Prompt
.TP
.B V3
Resolve (DNS), Status
.TP
.B V4
ForkEvent, ExecEvent, DylibLoaded
.SH ARCHITECTURE
The daemon runs a synchronous 32-thread worker pool with a bounded
request queue (64 slots). The database uses SQLite with WAL mode.
.PP
On startup, the daemon:
.IP 1. 3
Opens or creates the SQLite database and runs migrations
.IP 2. 3
Binds the Unix domain socket
.IP 3. 3
Spawns worker threads for IPC handling
.IP 4. 3
Begins accepting IPC connections
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B STT_GUARD_STATE_DIR
Override the Stentorian Guard state directory when
.B \-\-state\-dir
is not supplied. Defaults to
.IR ~/Library/Application\~Support/Stentorian\~Guard/ .
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Control logging verbosity. Defaults to
.BR info .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Stentorian\~Guard/stt-guard.db
SQLite database: rules, install artifacts, process roots.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Stentorian\~Guard/stt-guard-daemon.sock
Unix domain socket for IPC.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Stentorian\~Guard/snapshots/
CBOR snapshot files (per-run, HMAC-signed).
.TP
.I ~/Library/Logs/Stentorian Guard/
JSONL forensic log directory. Logs are rotated automatically.
.TP
.I ~/Library/LaunchAgents/sh.vandijk.stt-guard.daemon.plist
LaunchAgent plist (installed by
.BR "stt-guard setup" ).
.SH SECURITY
.IP \(bu 2
All IPC connections are authenticated via kernel audit tokens.
.IP \(bu 2
Snapshots are HMAC-SHA256 signed; the hook verifies signatures at load time.
.IP \(bu 2
The daemon runs as the current user with no elevated privileges.
.IP \(bu 2
Threat-intel deny rules are baked into the binary at build time; no data is sent upstream.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The watchdog process
.RB ( stt-guard\-watchdog )
pings the daemon every 500ms. Two consecutive missed pings trigger
SIGTERM followed by SIGKILL. The LaunchAgent's
.B KeepAlive
directive ensures launchd restarts the daemon after any termination.
.PP
Check daemon health with:
.RS
.nf
stt-guard status
stt-guard status \-\-verbose
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stt-guard (1),
.BR launchd (8),
.BR launchctl (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel van Dijk
