.\" stt-guard.1 — Stentorian Guard CLI manual page
.TH STT-GUARD 1 "2026-05-14" "Stentorian Guard v0.8" "Stentorian Guard Manual"
.SH NAME
stt-guard \- macOS supply-chain firewall for package installs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stt-guard
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I command
.RI [ args... ]
.br
.B stt-guard setup
.RI [ target ]
.RI [ FLAGS ]
.br
.B stt-guard status
.RI [ subcommand ]
.RI [ FLAGS ]
.br
.B stt-guard repair
.br
.B stt-guard unwrap\-all
.RI [ FLAGS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stt-guard
enforces default-deny outbound network policy on package-install subtrees.
Wrap any package manager command with
.B stt-guard
and every outbound connection from the process tree is checked against a
multi-tier policy: curated registry allowlist, project rules, user rules,
threat-intel deny list, then default deny.
.PP
Enforcement uses DYLD library injection
.RB ( DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES )
to interpose libc network calls. A background daemon
.RB ( stt-guard-daemon (8))
manages snapshots and interactive prompts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-learn
Auto-allow unknown destinations and record them to
.IR .guard.toml .
Requires a TTY; refuses to run in non-interactive environments.
Use this on a known-clean install to build a project baseline.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS stt-guard \fIcommand\fR [\fIargs...\fR]
The default action. Wraps
.I command
under Stentorian Guard enforcement. All arguments are passed verbatim.
.PP
.RS
.nf
stt-guard npm install
stt-guard pip install \-r requirements.txt
stt-guard cargo build
stt-guard \-\-learn npm install
.fi
.RE
.SS stt-guard setup [\fItarget\fR]
Install Stentorian Guard components. Without a target, installs everything.
.TP
.B daemon
Install the LaunchAgent plist and bootstrap the daemon.
.TP
.B shell
Install shell integration marker blocks in shell RC files.
.PP
.B Flags:
.TP
.B \-\-remove
Remove the targeted component(s) instead of installing.
Cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-reinstall .
.TP
.B \-\-reinstall
Force-clean reinstall: wipe and re-derive all state.
Cannot be combined with
.BR \-\-remove .
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip TTY confirmation prompts.
.SS stt-guard status [\fIsubcommand\fR]
Show Stentorian Guard operational status. Without a subcommand, prints daemon
health, counters, tracked roots, gaps, and risk exposure.
.PP
.B Subcommands:
.TP
.B logs
Dump the JSONL forensic log to stdout. For streaming, pipe to
.BR "tail -f ~/Library/Logs/Stentorian Guard/stt-guard.log" .
.TP
.B rules
List active policy rules.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-include\-built\-in
Include built-in registry-allowlist rules.
.RE
.TP
.BI "denials " run_uuid
Show denied connections from a specific run.
.TP
.BI "review " [run_uuid]
Interactively walk through denied connections and create allow/deny rules.
If
.I run_uuid
is omitted, reviews the most recent run.
.TP
.BI "persistence " [run_uuid]
Show persistence artifacts (files written during install) for a run.
.TP
.BI "advisory " advisory_id
Look up details for a threat-intel advisory ID (e.g. MAL-2025-3008).
.SS stt-guard repair
Verify and repair Stentorian Guard installation integrity. Re-derives the HMAC key
and hook hash, and re-bootstraps LaunchAgents.
.SS stt-guard unwrap\-all
Emergency escape hatch. Boots out the daemon and watchdog LaunchAgents
and clears all tracked process roots. Use when Stentorian Guard is interfering
with a critical operation.
.PP
.B Flags:
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip TTY confirmation prompt.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.SS .guard.toml
Per-project rules file. Stentorian Guard walks from the current directory upward
to find the nearest
.IR .guard.toml .
On first use, the file must be trusted via a TTY prompt (or auto-trusted
in non-TTY mode after SHA-256 validation).
.PP
Example:
.RS
.nf
[[allow]]
host = "api.example.com"
port = 443
reason = "Internal API"
.fi
.RE
.SS Policy Tiers (precedence order)
.TP
.B 1. Curated Allow
Built-in allowlist: package registries, CDNs.
.TP
.B 2. Project Allow
Rules from
.IR .guard.toml .
.TP
.B 3. User Allow
Rules created via interactive prompts or
.BR "stt-guard status review" .
.TP
.B 4. Curated Deny
Threat-intel IOCs from OSV/GHSA (baked in at build time).
.TP
.B 5. Default Deny
Everything else is blocked. In TTY mode, the user is prompted.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B STT_GUARD_STATE_DIR
Override the Stentorian Guard state directory used by the CLI, daemon, and hook.
Defaults to
.IR ~/Library/Application\~Support/Stentorian\~Guard/ .
.TP
.B STT_GUARD_HOOK_DYLIB
Override the hook dylib path used by
.B stt-guard wrap
before the CLI falls back to sibling and Homebrew installation paths. Mostly
useful for source builds and tests.
.TP
.B STT_GUARD_SNAPSHOT_MANIFEST
Internal per-run manifest path injected by
.B stt-guard wrap
into wrapped processes. Users should not set this manually; doing so can break
enforcement.
.TP
.B STT_GUARD_TEST_*
Development and test harness controls. Not part of the stable user interface.
.TP
.B STT_GUARD_E2E_NODE
Development-only override for the Node.js binary used by end-to-end tests.
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Control logging verbosity. Defaults to
.BR warn .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\~Support/Stentorian\~Guard/
State directory: database, snapshots, HMAC keys.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Logs/Stentorian Guard/
JSONL forensic logs.
.TP
.I .guard.toml
Per-project policy file.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Wrapped command exited successfully and no policy violations occurred.
.TP
.B non-zero
The wrapped command's exit code is forwarded.
.SH EXAMPLES
Wrap an npm install and review what was blocked:
.RS
.nf
$ stt-guard npm install
$ stt-guard status denials <run-uuid>
$ stt-guard status review <run-uuid>
.fi
.RE
.PP
Build a baseline for a known-clean project:
.RS
.nf
$ stt-guard --learn npm install
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install Stentorian Guard for the first time:
.RS
.nf
$ cargo build --workspace --release
$ stt-guard setup
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stt-guard-daemon (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel van Dijk
